103 , NOTES.

The promontory spreade behind the town, and risen
into a hill entirely eovered with olives· Catullus
undoubtedly inhabited this spot, and certainly he
could not have chonen a. more charming retreat.
The soil is fertile, audite surface varied3 sometimes
,shelving in a gentle declivity, at other times break-
-ing in craggy magnificence‚ and thus furnishing
every requisite for delightful walks and luxurious
'bathe 3 while the views vary at every step‚,present·
ing rich coasts or barren mountain5‚ sometimes con-
fined to the cultivated soenes of the neighboring
shore, and at other times bewildered and lost in the
windings of the lake, or in the recenses of the
A1ps.”-.-Eustace, Classical Tour

3. uterque Neptunus] Neptunus stagnorum, and
Neptunus mam,

13. Lydia] from the origin of ,the northern Ital-
jans who emigrated from Lydia.

CARMEN XXIV.

To Diana.

This ode, one of the few strictly lyric poems οἶοι.
tullus, was composed to be sung by choirs of youths
and mustene, at the celebration of the Ludi Secu-
lares, A. U. ⁸700. For the date, see the observa-
tions ο( Voss on this ode, and for the character and
purpose of the seculus gamen„ the remarks of

